---
layout: project
title: Portfolio Project 1
description: tbd
technologies: [tbd]
image: /assets/images/Part2.png
---

Part 1: Inluded in the part 2 picture.<br>
The objective of the assignment was to create a 2D lifting mechanism within a 150 cm × 50 cm design space, using a rigid bar, three pin supports (two ground-mounted), and a linear actuator selected from the provided catalog.<br>
The final design utilizes Actuator RSA, which has a maximum force of 58 kN and an extended length of 1.5 m. Based on static analysis of the structure and actuator geometry, the maximum mass the mechanism can lift was calculated to be 41,834.86 kg.
All components were modeled as rigid, and the configuration was optimized to achieve maximum lifting height within the given design constraints.<br>
 
 Part 2: <br>
1) a. Constraints  <br>
Bar is rigid and fixed at 1.5 m length. Right end must be 0.50 m higher than the pivot. Actuator has a force limit of 58 kN. All joints are pinsLoad acts vertically downward near the bar’s end. The objective was to maximize the supported load without exceeding actuator force, and maintain required geometry and height constraints while ensure static equilibrium of the rigid bar. The mechanism has one DOF, rotation of the bar about the ground pivot, controlled by actuator extension <br>
b. Treating the bar as a single rigid body, I analyzed the equilibrium of the bar under the actuator force and the external load. From the bar length L=1.5 m. The actuator applies an upward force of 58kNat at 1m horizontally from the pivot, and the unknown load. The weight acts at the end of the structure. Then doing the moment analysis I found the T force was 41kN. using T=mg, we were able to find that maximized mass held was 4200kg, and this is allowable for the actuator’s 58 kN capacity <br>
c. Photo Pictured above <br>

2) All in the attached picture above.


